	In our daily lives, we veil the true meaning of our words instead of speaking directly.  In Language as a Window into Human Nature, Steven Pinker explains that we use indirect language to create leeway and a static relationship (Pinker).  We can negotiate relationships by using different styles of language (Pinker, 2:34).  We can use explicit language and the mutual knowledge created by it to clarify a relationship or indirect language to create ambiguity and vagueness.
	Steven Pinker explains that language does two things:  it carries content and determines the relationship between two people (Pinker, 2:26).  Relationships fall into Alan Fiske’s three relationship types: dominance, communality, and reciprocity (Pinker, 3:34).  Indirect language can produce the feeling of one relationship type while carrying a message of another.  For example, a polite request carries the content of a command, but without the implication of dominance.  
	Indirect language is frequently creates individual knowledge, while explicit language normally creates mutual knowledge.  Mutual knowledge is when people share knowledge and know that others have the same knowledge.  However, individual knowledge lacks the connection of knowing that other people have the same knowledge.  This lack of knowledge can create a misunderstanding and allows the benefit of the doubt.
	It is this leniency that makes indirect language so useful.  For example, when a man uses an indirect sexual invitation and women declines, they can pretend that it never happened and continue their relationship as it was.  However, if the man had used blunter language, the mutual knowledge that the woman did not want to have sex would clarify their relationship.  Explicit language resolves relationships into dominance, reciprocity, or communality, which may or may not be desired.  This choice of explicit versus indirect language shapes our words and our relationships with others.

Works Cited
Pinker, Steven. Language as a Window into Human Nature. Cognitive Media, 2010. Web. 12 Sep 2013. <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3-son3EJTrU>.
